this video was made in partnership with
curiositystream
[Music]
[Applause]
oh
humans are the current number one build
in the meta but they haven't always
reigned supreme
in fact at first they were one of the
least powerful builds in the meta
and it took several buffs refinements
and tweaks before the human became even
remotely threatening within its home
server of africa
so today we're going to break down all
the different variations of the human
build throughout the history of outside
and discuss their unique traits
stats and abilities with the hope of
demonstrating why some of these
skill-free choices worked
while others couldn't compete the first
players to unlock the human class were a
group of african primate mains that
switched from the knuckle-walking
quadrupedal build to a bipedal one
it's important to note that at this
point they hadn't sacrificed their
arboreal mobility perks yet and relied
heavily on their ability to climb to
escape danger
the top tiers at the time were all large
terrestrial mammal builds far too strong
for australopithecus to challenge them
so their only option was to avoid them
it might seem counterintuitive to switch
to a bipedal build when your playstyle
is centered around the arboreal zone
but the reason this was so crucial was
because it freed up their hands to be
able to carry items back to their tree
this was the first step towards refining
the cooperative loot sharing playstyle
that have made humans so dominant in the
current meta
now you might be surprised to learn that
the devs have nerfed humans in the past
the tree dwelling strategy was seen as a
cheap way to avoid dealing with other
players and so the devs decided to
reduce the number and size of trees in
the africa server
this forced humans to ditch their
arboreal strategy and spec into
ground-based abilities
and for a while humans got absolutely
bodied by other players
even with the ability to use items and
create tools the other builds in the
region like saber tooths and giant
hyenas
were far too strong for humans to deal
with they had to rely solely on the
thieving skill to get by
but this disadvantage was slightly
mitigated by their newfound ability to
crack bone using tools
letting them scavenge for marrow after
big cats had finished with a kill
once humanity had scraped together
enough evolution points by scavenging
they finally got to level up some of
their stats and give themselves the
ability to survive by hunting rather
than scavenging
they specked into longer legs and less
body hair allowing them to finally
unlock one of the human's most powerful
signature abilities
sweating sweating allows the player to
recharge their stamina even while moving
whereas other builds are forced to stop
and use the pant ability to recharge
stamina
they could justify putting all of their
evolution points into mobility rather
than power
because by this point they'd also
leveled up their crafting enough to make
spears
the staple best in slot two-handed
weapon until the invention of gunpowder
a sustainable source of meat is worth a
lot more xp than fruit or scavenged
marrow
so much so that this let humans finally
start leveling up their intelligence to
a truly staggering level
promoting both cooperation and
innovation but once again
nerfs were on the way just before the
ice age balance patch hit
a faction of the human player base
migrated servers establishing themselves
in the europe server
most of the others stayed in africa the
ice age patch hit
and it led to two very different changes
in the two servers that the humans were
playing on
in europe as you probably expect the
overworld temperature dropped and ice
damage became a threat
the humans as well as most of the other
top players there
specked into bulkier builds that could
survive the cold better
in short the update didn't really affect
them too badly this group became known
as the neanderthal faction
the humans that remained in africa now
known as the sapiens faction
faced a much worse update ironically
during the ice age africa got hotter and
drier
the large herbivores humans had such a
good match-up against all left
and the human player base in africa was
reduced to the brink of extinction
with player counts below ten thousand
they survived by leveling up their
fishing skill
scavenging for shellfish and other low
xp sources as they too
made their escape from africa when they
finally escaped africa they were finally
back in a server they could thrive in
but they had competition neanderthals
had the highest stats of any human build
in history
they had bigger brains more girthy
bodies stronger muscles
just undeniably a more viable build
compared to sapiens
so by this point i'm guessing you're
wondering well if neanderthals were more
powerful
why is it that eventually the
neanderthals lost the faction war to the
sapiens
it turns out that their physical
superiority was actually their downfall
neanderthals and sapiens had a very
different hunting strategy when it comes
to taking down large herbivores
neanderthals had the strength to defeat
them with melee combat
and had the defense and hp to be able to
take a hit or two even from some of the
ice age's strongest herbivore builds
they were also fast enough to be able to
close the distance between themselves
and their targets
this all sounds awesome but there's one
key detail in this plan that you might
have noticed
since neanderthals were fit enough to
take on these herbivores face to face
they didn't have to invent ranged
weapons sapiens on the other hand
would get one shot if they tried to take
on behemoths like mammoths or wooly
rhinos in close combat
thankfully even though their brains
weren't as big as neanderthals it was
still more than enough for them to be
able to use the aforementioned crafting
skill to create the first ranged weapon
the atlatl atlatls are a relatively
simple yet effective item that allows
the user to launch spears over twice as
far
this was critical for the survival of
sapiens as it allowed them to match the
dps of the neanderthal
but also stay out of range of a
potentially devastating counter-attack
sapiens also tended to have bigger party
sizes neanderthals were less social and
tended to stick to small
tight-knit groups while sapiens formed
much larger communities that could
control much larger territories
eventually even though neanderthals were
the better fighters they were the ones
failing to find enough xp to survive
and this is where their physical might
became a huge detriment the bigger you
are the more energy you need to survive
and so the neanderthal's strong powerful
bodies eventually became
unsustainable most of them were defeated
in combat or starved
although a few did end up actually
switching factions and joining with the
sapiens
but finally after defeating their most
dangerous opponent humans were free to
dominate the game as the new top tiers
they mastered several key advanced
techniques such as agriculture archery
and sailing
allowing them to push them at a far past
what other builds ever thought possible
you'd think that they would all work
together to rule the game but
unfortunately many of them ended up
engaging in pvp with each other
it kind of makes sense given that other
players are hardly even a challenge but
nonetheless infighting is their biggest
weakness right now
anyways hopefully that gives you a
better background on the history of the
game's most overpowered build
[Music]
oh by the way i bet many of you noticed
the incredible footage of ancient
hominins that i used in this video
this footage is from a brand new
documentary called out of the cradle
which was animated by square enix the
masterminds behind the final fantasy and
dragon quest video games
it's available right now on curiosity
stream a streaming service that has over
2400 titles including many of my
personal all-time favorites
like walking with dinosaurs ice age
giants and of course
out of the cradle the subscription is
only 2.99 a month but if you go to
curiositystream.com
tearsu right now and use the promo code
tearsu you can get a whole month for
free
so please go check out out of the cradle
i can genuinely say that it's got some
of the best animation of any prehistoric
documentary i've seen
anyways thank you all so much for
watching and thanks especially my
patrons on patreon
until next time good luck out there
[Music]